---
layout: post
title: Laundry Day
---

Swoosh. Gurgle. Pause. Splash. Spin. Pause. Whoosh. Whir. That's the sounds I hear from the laundry machine as I write this post. This is my third time doing laundry in UB. By now, I'm somewhat accustomed to how the machine works. It was one of the first appliances I looked at when I first arrived at the apartment. Probably because it is in the room closest to the front door--the washroom. It was clear to me immediately that the controls were not in English. The only English word was Samsung. I was happy to recognize a familiar brand.

Ankhaa, one of the two people who greeted me and taken me to my apartment, recognized the language was Korean. She just so happened to be more or less fluent in Korean. What a happy coincidence. Upon explaining that I wanted a delicate cycle for my business clothing, Ankhaa read over the options and pointed out the one that could work for me. "This one is 'baby bubble'", she said, with a giggle. Those words were giggle-worthy. I also laughed. Koreans have cute naming conventions for washing cycles?! How fun! In any case, I knew that Ankhaa's advice would come in handy when I ran out of things to wear.

About 10 to 12 days later, it was very apparent that I needed to address my overflowing laundry hamper. I'd had a good run, only so many clothes could fit in my two suitcases (amidst all the other items for 3 months worth of living in a extremely cold climate). This time I did not have Ankhaa with me and forgot all that she showed me. I thought I might have to temporarily learn Korean, but then I remembered something that made a huge difference when Andrew and I had travelled to Japan last year. I knew that that moment that I and my clothes would be okay. My hero to the rescue was google translate. Specifically, the google translate app on my phone. In chatting with a colleague about Japan (where in fact she had been to a year or two before), she could not recommend the app enough. She described to me the benefits of the app in detail, including that it translates text in pictures and in live action shots. She was so passionate about it that we took her sage advice and downloaded it before we left. It was hands-down the best decision we made. While we hopped between Japanese cities, we used google translate to converse with restaurant staff who didn't know any English and to read signs when we were hiking out in the countryside. It is more-than-worthwhile app to have when you're travelling to a place that does not have English as an official language. (A sim card with a data plan is also necessary, so you can use the app when you're out and about, wifi-less). It will positively change the way you travel. I digress.

Back to the task of laundry, I enlisted google translate to assist me in figuring out the best washing combination for my clothes. One wrong choice and I could have ended up with no wearable clothing, and an unfun shopping trip. Determined to keep my wardrobe intact, I diligently looked at every Korean letter and word twice. There was an unbelievable amount of choices-- to how wet the clothes would be to adding extra bubbles. I discovered that the machine was a 2-in-1.,a washer and a dryer. I also realized, with the help of my trusty app, that I could put in liquid detergent or powdered detergent. The first time I ran the washer, it took me more than 10 minutes to choose a cycle I was comfortable with. When I finally took the plunge and pressed the 'start' button, the timer showed 1 hour and 30 minutes to complete. This was worrying. I'm used to my delicate wash cycle at home that is only 37 minutes! I thought to myself, 'how could baby bubble be almost three times as long as my usual delicate cycle in Canada'. From then on, I monitored the machine like it was a small child, checking on it every so often. Long story short, I let the cycle run its full course. The final result was clean clothes that were the same size as before. The appartment also thankfully had a laundry rack. Laundry success! That was 3 weeks ago. Today, it took me only 5 minutes to start the wash. Success yet again (I'll take 'em where I can get 'em).

The best part of doing the laundry was when the machine played a bit-tune song at the end of the cycle. The song lasted about 20 seconds, it was upbeat and happy, and was the definition of cute. Doing my laundry here has taught me that even chores are an adventure when you're in Mongolia. Also, that North American laundry machine manufacturer's need to learn a thing or two from Korean laundry machines. I want happy songs when my laundry is done in Canada! Mongolia (or should I say Korea?) 1. Canada 0.
